$Id$
PaperCut Shape File format, v1.01

PaperCut uses the .shp file to define model shapes.
This document describes the syntax of the .shp file.

Encoding
Shape files are plain text but always encoded as UTF-8.
This means that characters outside the "plain ASCII" range
are likely to end up as multi-character sequences.  But it
will show up just fine in PaperCut, never fear.

Comments
Shape files may contain any number of blank lines and
comments.  A comment is any line beginning with the hash
mark (#).

Record delimiters
Shape files are delimited by CR, LF, or CRLF together (MAC,
UNIX, or DOS - all are acceptable).  Each line constitutes
a single record.

Record syntax
Each record consists of a keyword followed by zero or more
arguments.  Records are described here grouped by the number
of arguments they take.
Records may be preceded by any amount of tabs and/or spaces.
Trailing whitespace may be counted as part of a name in name
records, otherwise it is ignored.

0 (zero) arguments
------------------

{
(open brace) Begins a list of records belonging to an object.
Object types include shape, face, edge and vertex.

}
(close brace) Ends a list of records belonging to an object.
Note that PaperCut always tries to neatly indent records
to show the nesting of objects, but indentation is NOT
required for PaperCut to make sense of a .shp file.


1 argument
----------

image filename
Specifies the name of a .bmp file to be rendered on a face.
Not applicable to anything else.  Filename may contain spaces.
Will be interpreted relative to PaperCut document directory
unless it begins with slash.  Backslash may NOT be used in
filenames.

name value
This defines a name for the current object.  May contain spaces
BUT object names containing spaces may NOT be used for joining
edges.  Thus object names with spaces should be avoided for edges
and faces.

text value
This defines text to be rendered on a face.  Not applicable to
edges and vertices.
Note that value may contain spaces.  It will be read up to (but
not including) the end of the line.

2+ arguments
------------

dictentry name value
Defines a shape dictionary entry

settings ...
Shape-specific settings.
